R79 Major changes:
Main diff from R78 was debugging of KSTMG,KSTGP stats to give same
results on serial and parallel machines.  Marking of which stimuli
were observed in each trial were removed from pps and ps2 arrays and
put in new lindv space for each celltype along with space for KSTHR
history for one trial back from current.  This gets rid of unneeded
keeping track for connections with delay--marks just OR together
across cycles in a trial.  As regards mem allocation, allocation in
lindv would allow turning these stats on/off at Group III time, but
this was not done because of initializations done at d3mchk that would
have to be redone in d3nset--but some are used sooner...

darwin3 main:  Add envin() call to redirect stdin, turn off OKPLOT
   if NOXG and no METAFILE.  Get rid of VFILEONLY option.  Move
   "Running" message to d3start and add serial case.
d3start:  Implement printing host name and number of nodes, WAI info.
d3tchk:  Add KSTHR (response history) to options that set RP->kxr GSTATS.
d3allo:  Remove allocation of lmm space from pps and ps2, allow for
   two (hi+lo) histos and new HILOSI (if PAR) in ldstat, eliminate
   RP->nctwmgs, eliminate marking space on PAR0 node.
d3news:  Add ir->andctkst, now only used to shut off stats at
   region level when off for all celltypes in that region.
d3nset:  Fix allocations for stim id marking, HILOSI and GPSTATs
   space, eliminat lmm space in pps, ps2 arrays.
d3zsta:  Clear the HILOSI and pmark space correctly.
d3go:  Fixes for KSTMG,KSTGP stats just summarized:  Clear stim id
   marks only at start of a trial, count hits > pt and hits > ht
   separately, renamed oHLsi to iHLsi and made it an index, not a byte
   offset.  Changed 'cyclestogo' to a signed variable so can count
   down to 0 on last cycle of a trial and go to -1 when trial is done.
   Also enhanced the DBGHLD debug output to give better info.
d3gsta:  Add nstim to HILOSI, correct looping over HILOSI blocks,
   eliminate loop over pmarks and just process all GPSTATs
   whether the stimulus was seen or not.
d3stat:  Allow any combo of KSTMT +/- KSTGP, clean up text and
   checking for hiloresp, lohiresp, advancing of pgp0 pointer.
d3chng:  Remove KSTHR from stats that require XRM allocation.
d3exit:  Improve exit loop checking (abexloop).
d3term:  If PAR, always call envplt() even if no plotting, for shutdown.
d3global:  Add def of VFILE_ERROR.
rpdef:   Add nhlsi, nhlssv.
rpdef0:  Remove pmark0, lmark0. 
repblock:  Add andctkst.
celltype:  Add nstim to HILOSI, remove pmark, oHLsi, seqhls,
   add mspt, iMarkh, iMarks.
celldata:  Pointers to the new stim id marking areas on each node.
makefile:  Incorporate LCLHOME, add d3start, defined MPICC.
makmac64, maklux32, maknoi64:  Add d3start.

