Shakespeare Notes

Born and baptised in Stratford-upon-Avon on
April 26, 1564.
Died at age 52 on April 23, 1616.

His work consists of approximately 39 plays, 154
sonnets, two long narrative poems, and a few other
verses. All of his plays have been translated into
every major living language.

Shakespeare produced most of his known works between
1589 and 1613. He started with comedies and histories,
then later in his career, he began writing tragedies,
like Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth.

Shakespeare had his own coat of arms, which depicts a
spear as a pun on the family name.

Shakespeare was accused of stealing work in the past,
but not much of that was kept up.

1. Where did he grow up?
He grew up in Statford-upon-Avon, England.

2. What did his father do for a living?
His father was a glove-maker.

3. Who did he marry?
Shakespeare married Anne Hathaway.

4. What were his children's names?
Hamnet Shakespare, Susanna Hall, and Judith Quiney.

5. What were some rumors about what he did during the "lost years"?
Apparently during this time was his apparent arrival on the London theatre scene in 1592.

6. What theater company did he join that was the most celebrated company in London?
The Globe

7. How many words is Shakespeare credited with adding to the English language?
Shakespeare invented over 1700 of our common words.

8. Name 3 of those words.
~ Bandit
~ Critic
~ Skim-milk

9. Plays and poems used how many different words?

10. What are the three different typse of plays?
Comedy, History and Tragedy.

11. Three traits comedies have?
Clever servant, Mistaken identities, and a struggle of young lovers to overcome problems.

12. Where were Shakespearean plays performed?
His plays were performed at the Globe.

13. Which color flag was used for tragedy?
A black flag was used for tragedy.

14. How old was he when he died?
He was 51 years old.

15. What was interesting/unusual about it? birthday
Shakespeare died on his birthday.

16. Fill in what is on his tombstone .."curst be he that moves my bones..."
 Good friends for Jesus' sake forbear,
 To dig the dust enclosed here:
 Blest be the man that spare these stones,
 And curst be he that moves my bones.

17. First collection of his plays after his death was called what?

18. Name as many plays, with types, as you can.
Tragedies:
Titus Andronicus, Romeo and Juliet, King Lear, Hamlet, Othello, Julius Caeasar,
Macbeth, Antony and Clopatra, Coriolanus, and Timon of Athens.
Histories:
Henry VI, Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2, Henry V, Richard II, Richard III, King John,
and Henry VII.
Romance:
Pericles, Cymbeline, The Winter's Tale, The Tempest and The Two Noble Kinsmen.
