0
$Id: errtab 68 2018-08-15 19:33:46Z  $
This is a table of all the abexit error codes for all routines
developed in the G. Reeke laboratory at The Rockefeller University.
The format of the errtab is the following:
The first line    ->(column 0)<error number>(space)<program name>(\n)
Remaining lines   -><description of the error>
The program name is terminated by a comma or blank--use slash to list
more than one program.  The description is terminated by a line that
begins with a digit (the next error code).
Lines beginning with '#' are comments.
001  IHCFIOSH (Obsolete)
Unable to open error message unit.
002  IHCIBCOM (Obsolete)
Attempt to use object-time format.
003  RFREAD/RFSEEK
Read error on input file.
004  RFSEEK
Error attempting to perform file seek.
005  RFWRITE
Write error on output file.
006  BDAMIO
Output skip exceeds buffer length.
007  QSAMIO
RECFM in SETAUT call incompatible with DD card.
008  IPCMD/NPCMD
Attempt to execute CP/CMS command in MVS.
009  PAUSQ
Unable to install PX as CMS immediate command.
010  E64SET/NDRFLW
Argument to e64set() is not one of the specified constants, or an
attempt was made to push down more than 4 (plus default) states of
the arithmetic overflow handling system, or a specific termination
action was requested but a necessary pointer needed to perform that
action had not been stored.
011  CONVRT
Format does not begin with left parenthesis.
012  CONVRT/EQSCAN/INFORM/KWSCAN
Invalid or unrecognized format code.
013  CONVRT
End of I/O list picking up data or T, R, or # parameter or
an array dimension or brackets were encountered before a
previously specified array had been fully processed.
014  CONVRT
Digit not found when required in format, or a number in a format
was outside acceptable bounds, for example, an 'iexit' error
code outside the range 1 <= iexit <= 8.
015  CONVRT
Input-only function on output or vice-versa, or trying to read
a wide (one or two integers) random number seed from input that
is not scanned (has fortran-style input format).
016  CONVRT
Number of characters in line exceeds 132.
017  CONVRT
Negative repeat count picked up from I/O list.
018  CONVRT
Attempted I/O from sconvrt or sinform.
019  CONVRT
Unmatched quotes or parens or square brackets in a conversion
format, or parens and brackets are intermixed.
020  CONVRT/NUMBER
Invalid decimal or binary point specification.
021  MUSCAN
The default unit specification starts with an unknown multiplier.
022  CDSCAN
Begin column is beyond end of card.
024  EQSCAN/KWSCAN
Digit not found when required in action code.
025  MCODES/MCODPRT
More than 32 keys or codes.
026  MATCH
Invalid iscn code.
027  NNCOM
A received message contained fewer bytes than required to
read one complete base-type object.
028  HOSTNIO
Unsupported node communication function called.  One example would
be trying to combine floating point values by an OR operation across
nodes in a parallel computer.
029  NNCOM
An unrecognized type code was encountered while converting data
formats for transmission between processors.
030  ACORE/ANGETPV
Incorrect item length or zero items for memory allocation, or
requested memory was not available.
031  FREEP/FREEPV/ANRELPV/FCORE
Attempt to free a memory area that was not allocated to this
program or not allocated in the same memory class.
032  MALLOCV/CALLOCV/REALLOCV/ALLOCPMV/ALLOCPCV/ALLOCPRV
Unable to allocate requested dynamic memory.
033  REALLOCV/ALLOCPR/ALLOCPRV/WHATPOOL
Attempt to reallocate or determine the pool of a memory area
that was not allocated to the program.
034  ALLOCPM/ALLOCPC/ALLOCPR/FREEP
Attempt to allocate or free shared memory on a comp node.
This error indicates that routines from the allocp family were
incorrectly compiled, linked, and called on a comp node.  The
program should be changed to make all calls to these routines
from the host program.
035  ALLOCPM/ALLOCPC/ALLOCPR/FREEP
Memory pool specification is not valid.
036  ALLOCPM/ALLOCPC/ALLOCPR/FREEP
Allocation change in StaticTree after first broadcast.
037  MEMBCST
On a parallel computer, indicates that there was not enough memory
on some computational node to contain all the memory allocated on
the host as shared memory, either initially or during an attempt to
recover from memory fragmentation by reallocating all shared memory.
038  MEMBCST/CHNGPOOL
During a shared memory broadcast or an attempt to move a memory block
to a different memory pool, an mblkdef control block had an operation
code that should never occur at this point.  This situation is due to
a programming error in the memory management routines and should be
reported to G.N. Reeke for correction.
039  MEMBCST
An attempt was made to translate a host pointer to node address
space, but the corresponding memory block does not exist on the node.
The most likely cause of this problem is that a union conversion
routine incorrectly determined the current state of a union, and
a variable that was treated as a pointer was actually something else.
040  IBCDWT/UBCDWT/WBCDWT/CKVADJ
Invalid parameters given to decimal output or adjustment routine.
Hexadecimal or octal output specified a decimal or binary scale
parameter.
041  WBCDWT
A program requested hexadecimal output with the full width of
the variable type, but the width provided was insufficient.
042  KWSCAN/EQSCAN
Application was reading user input text.  The variable used to hold
a locator for this text was not large enough to contain locators for
all the text inputs encountered.  Please report this problem to G.N.
Reeke for correction.  Workaround:  Use fewer than 255 (or 65535)
unique input text strings in your application if possible.
043  KWSCAN/INFORM
Program attempted to invoke an application-specific conversion
routine, but no routine was registered.  Please report this problem
to G.N. Reeke for correction.
044  KWSREG
An attempt was made to register an input conversion routine outside
the range of 10 allowed registrations.  Please report this problem
to G.N. Reeke for correction.
045  GENERIC
Can not read pipe.
046  GENERIC
Can not write to pipe.
047  NNPUTP/NNPSK
Attempted to write a contiguous block longer than the
maximum message length or the reserved buffer length.
048  ANREAD/ANTEST/MPI_Recv
Error reading a message from another node.  On MPI systems, if
text output is available, a message will be produced giving the
numeric MPI error code.
049  ANWRITE/MPI_Send
Error transmitting a message to another node.  On MPI systems, if
text output is available, a message will be produced giving the
numeric MPI error code.
050  CRYOUT
Subtitle too long.
051  CRYOUT
Incorrect subtitle code.
052  CRYOUT/RFQSAME
Attempt to access an I/O device that does not exist
or was not opened.
055  SIBCDIN
Attempt to input from NULL field or
invalid number base specification.
056  SIBCDIN
Nonnumeric character found in numeric field.
057  SIBCDIN, SHSORTUS, MDKS
Invalid numeric value (negative or zero not allowed here).
058  SSPRINTF
Length specification missing in output format.
059  SSPRINTF
Format code was not s,d,m,p,P,x, or X.
060  CRYIN
Control card record longer than 80 characters.
062  CRYIN
Unable to allocate card file control block or buffer.
063  CRYIN
Unable to allocate requested space for symbols.
064  CRYIN
Syntax error on EXECUTE or DEFAULTS card.
065  PARMQ
More than 79 columns of parameter data.
066  RKSLEEP
System returned error state on attempt to sleep.
067  ITERRECT/ITERCIRC/etc.
A parameter to a geometrical lattice iteration routine was invalid
(for example, negative size of a rectangle, or a lattice was so
large that rounding errors would be excessive).
068  ITERPOLY/ITERPGFG/ITEREPGF
A vertex of a polygon that was to be filled (or its complement
filled) is located outside the space in which the object is to
be placed.  This space comprises a specified rectangle and a
margin zone around the rectangle of equal height and width in
all directions.
Alternatively, a call was made to a routine that is used to
find all the points inside a (mostly-) convex polygon, but the
polygon was either degenerate or had concavities that would
cause generation of points outside the polygon.
069  E64ACT
An arithmetic overflow was detected and the application had
specified that termination should take place for this error.
070  UDEVSKIP/WDEVSKIP
Count argument to random number skip routine is negative or
exceeds 2**31 in 32-bit, 2**48 in 64-bit systems.
071  RANNUM/RANNOR
Zero or negative count argument.
072  JDSW/JDUW/etc.
Attempted division by zero.
073  JDSW/JDUW/etc.
Division quotient overflowed size of long integer.
074  DSRSWWQE/DSRUWWQE,JSRRSW, etc.
A fixed-point variable was to be shifted left or right, but the
shift shift exceeded the max for which the code was written or
was zero.
075  DSRSWQ/DSRUWQ
A left shift operation overflowed while preparing for 64-bit
division.  This error cannot be masked off by the program.
076  UI32POW
A fixed-point value taken to an integer power overflowed the
size (32-bits) allocated to hold the result.
077  IMULUP/LMULUP/UMULUP/YMULUP/ZMULUP
An attempt was made to find a value which is a multiple of
some base value and that is greater than or equal to some other
value, and either the base was zero or the result overflowed.
078  GETPRIME
An attempt was made to get a prime integer greater than or equal
to some specified value, but no such prime exists that can be
represented by an unsigned long integer.  This error most likely
indicates that a hash table is too large to store in the avail-
able RAM memory.  If in a 32-bit environment, consider using a
 64-bit version of the application.
079  SI32PERM
An attempt was made to generate a permuation of a sequence of
integers, but the size of the permutation was less than 2.
080  RMBF10
Negative arguement to I1(x)/I0(x) function.
081  ILSTREAD
Invalid default mode argument to ilstread().  Application
program logic error.
082  ILSTREAD
Attempted to delete more items from an iteration list than
were contained in the list.  Program logic error.
083  ILSTREAD
Attempted to add items to an empty list.  Program logic error.
084  ILSTCHK
Array size for iteration exceeds 1,073,741,823.  Iteration list
processing routines must be rewritten to handle arrays this large.
085  NMALLO
The program attempted to use Nelder-Mead optimization on a problem
of two or fewer dimensions.  This procedure requires at minimum a
three-dimensional problem.
086  NNCOM/MPITOOLS
The length of an interprocessor message to be sent or received
was calculated to be longer than the size of the largest 32-bit
integer, which is the largest allowed message length on this system.
Problem coding error.
087  SW2LE/UW2LE
A routine was called to shorten a 64-bit integer to a 32-bit long,
but a long is 64 bits on this machine.  This must be a link-time
error, probably caused by an error in a makefile.
088  BITPACK/BITUNPK
The number of bits requested to be stored in or retrieved from a
packed bit-string array exceeded the length of that array.
089  SETBPACK/SETBUNPK
An attempt was made to initiate storage of packed bit-string
data beyond the end of the space allocated.
091  NCINFO (Obsolete FSETUP definition removed, 06/28/16)
A node on a a parallel program while starting up was unable to
obtain its node number (rank) or other information about the
cluster.
092  NNCOM
A message was received on a compute node containing 64-bit long
integer data, but on this node a long has room for only 32 bits
and the value of the number exceeded 32-bits.
093  GETTXT
An attempt was made to retrieve text using the given
text locator, but that text was not found in the cache.
094  HASHDEL
Tried to delete an item from a hash table that was not there.
095  HASHINIT
While attempting to create a hash table, the hashinit routine found
that the location of hash keys or hash links within a user data
structure was beyond the first 65536 bytes.  Program logic error.
096  CRYMPLOT/SETMF
Attempt to plot before initialization call has been executed.
097  RFCLOSE
Unable to close file.
098  RFALLO
Unable to allocate space for file information or
obtain a socket for a network file.
Reason codes are as follows:
Error 1: Unable to allocate space for RFdef block.
Error 2: Unable to allocate space for file name.
Error 3: Could not obtain or connect to a socket.
Error 4: Trying to listen to a socket,
         but socket number not given.
Error 5: Could not bind port to socket.
Error 6: Listen call on specified port failed.
Error 7: Sockets not supported on non-UNIX systems.
Error 8:
099  RFOPEN
Unable to open a file.  Reason codes are as follows:
Error 1: No RFdef file definition block specified.
Error 2: File was already open, error closing it.
Error 3: Attempt to change access method of existing file.
Error 4: Could not allocate buffer space.
Error 5: Attempt to change host name specified in rfallo() call.
Error 6: Could not allocate storage for host name.
Error 7: Could not obtain name of current host.
Error 8: Attempt to change socket specified in rfallo() call
         or valid socket number not specified.
Error 9: Could not obtain IP address of specified host.
Error 10: Could not connect to specified host.
Error 11: accept() call on specified socket failed.
Error 12: Socket communication not supported on non-UNIX host.
Error 13: System open call failed.
Error 14: System fdopen call failed.
Error 15: System fopen call failed.
Error 16: Access method not specified in rfallo or rfopen or
          was specified in rfallo but as deferred in rfopen.
Error 17: Attempt to create a uniquely named temporary file
          failed.
Error 18: Attempt to unlink a temporary file failed.
100  ABEXIT
Under UNIX, a termination code greater than 255 was issued.
The operating system cannot recognize a code this large.
The code was printed and code 100 returned to the system.
101  BBD-client-application
A network simulation (CNS) terminated normally, possibly as
a result of user action, and signalled the BBD client that it
should terminate.
102  Application
A subprocess terminated for one of the following reasons:
--It stopped because it received a signal, such as a kill signal,
that it was not prepared to handle.
--A Matlab mex file terminated with an error and a further error 
occurred while attempting to display the termination message for
the first error.
--The Matlab error handling routine returned without terminating
the Matlab script.
--An MPI parallel program attempted to perform an abnormal exit
but a signal sent from the node where the error occurred to the
host node was not delivered.  Most likely this would be because
the hos node process had already terminated.
103  Application
Unexpected end-of-file encountered while copying user data
on termination of application.
104  Application
Error detected by FORTRAN or C library routine while attempting
to copy a data tape, close files, or perform other termination
actions designed to preserve user data.
105  Application
This code is used by a subprocess to indicate to its parent that
it has terminated for some reason that is neither an error nor a
normal termination, but rather some understood contingency that
the parent application is prepared to deal with.  If this code
ever occurs as an abexit error, there is a coding error in the
application that should be brought to the attention of the author.
106  Application
An error was detected by a main program or by a library routine
and an ERROR DUMP REQUESTED card had been read.
Note:  In UNIX, Linux, and similar systems, error dumps may be
implemented in a manner that does not return an exit code.
107  Application
Arithmetic interrupt occurred and a dump was requested.
Note:  In UNIX, Linux, and similar systems, error dumps may be
implemented in a manner that does not return an exit code.
108  DBGOUT, ENVOUT, ENVIN
The dbgout orenvout routine was called to divert standard output
to a file, or envin was called to divert standard input from a
file, but no path argument was given or the given path name was
of length 0 or 1, or memory could not be allocated to copy the
path name.
109  RFALLO
Program was attempting to bind to an internet socket but
the specified port number was already in use.  You can use
'lsof -i :10003' [or whatever port you are using] to find
out what program is listening on the port.  Let that program
complete, or kill it if it is not doing anything useful, and
try the run again.
110  SSMATCH
A key contained more than one period--only one prefix is allowed.
111  GETVALCK
A numeric parameter for a range value check was longer than 16
characters.
112  GETVALCK
A range check specified both '<' and '<=' or '>' and '>=' tests.
113  UVALCK
A range check on an unsigned value specified a maximum or
minimum of 0.  The first is impossible, the second is redundant.
114  IVCKMSG0
An invalid error code was passed to a routine that was supposed
to print an error message for an invalid value of input variable.
115  GETMYIP
The program called function 'getmyip' to determine the (or an) IP
address for the system.  The error occurred as 'getmyip' tried to
run the system utility 'ifconfig' in a subprocess.  Either an
attempt to create, renumber, or close a pipe failed, or an attempt
to fork a subprocess failed, or the subprocess was unable to find
or to execute 'infconfig'.  The last of these is most likely.
116  GETMYIP
The program called function 'getmyip' to determine the (or an) IP
address for the system.  'getmyip' ran the system utility 'ifconfig'
in a subprocess.  Either a system error occurred while waiting for
'ifconfig' to terminate, or 'ifconfig' terminated with a nonzero
return code, indicating an error.
117  GETMYIP
The program called function 'getmyip' to determine the (or an) IP
address for the system.  'getmyip' ran the system utility 'ifconfig'
in a subprocess.  The error occurred while trying to read the
results returned by 'ifconfig'.  Either the pipe file written by
'ifconfig' could not be opened, or it could not be read, or it did
not contain at least two lines.
118  GETMYIP
The program called function 'getmyip' to determine the (or an) IP
address for the system.  'getmyip' ran the system utility 'ifconfig'
in a subprocess.  'ifconfig' returned a result that was not in the
expected format.  For example, the IP address was not terminated by
a blank character, or it was longer than the 19 character maximum
expected for an address of the form "xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx".
119  MUSCAN
The program called function 'muscan' to interpret user-entered
metric units and an attempt was made to apply a binary scale that
was outside the programmed range 0 - 63.  Program coding error.
# 120-132 TURTLE graph tracing package
120  TURTINIT/HARRINIT
A parameter to the turtinit() or harrinit() function was out of
range.  The accompanying message should indicate the cause, for
example, image size in x or y direction exceeds 65535, a specified
cosine or curvature value exceeds 1.0, or a length value is negative
or greater than the size of the image.
121  TURTLE/HARROW
A call was made to a routine in the "turtle" image tracing package,
but the required TRTL common data block was invalid or damaged.
122  TGLIST
While listing the results of an image trace, the number of lines
or junctions or strip density blocks found in the data structure
did not match the count provided by the trace routine.  This
represents a coding error.
123  TURTLE
A line or junction had no pixels.  This represents a coding error.
124  TURTLE
No line node for point assigned that line number.
Line node can't be found when trying to delete that line.
This represents a coding error.
125  TURTLE/ELIANAL
User error:  elianal() was called after harrow(), but this cannot
work because harrow() destroys information in the TRTL block that
is needed by elianal().  Fix:  Call elianal() before harrow().
Internal error:  A function was called, but some items in the
TRTL common block were not set up appropriately for that function.
Either a call was made to disambiguate points or to generate
junctions, but no TGRAPH had been created; or on entry to the
disambiguation routine, the number of ambiguous points found
in the image did not match the count in the TRTL common area;
or an attempt was made to free up a list of pixels, but the
pointer to the end of the list was NULL.
126  TURTLE/HARROW
Too many lines or junctions or divisions of a "harrow" scan.
The number of lines or junctions generated by a trace exceeded
the maximum allowed by the type definitions in the program
(currently 65535) or else the number of divisions of a single
harrow scan exceeded 255.
127  TRACE
A table of which pixels belong to which lines was found to be
inconsistent with the image pixel assignment array.
128  TMEXxxxx/HMEXxxxx
A call to a Matlab mex-function version of one of the "turtle"
or "harrow" image analysis routines had an incorrect number or
types of arguments.  The error message should indicate the exact
cause.
129  TURTMEX
An error occurred creating or accessing a semaphore used by the
Matlab mex-function interface to the "turtle" image analysis
routines.  The error message should indicate the exact cause.
130  TURTMEX
Two calls were made to tmexinit to initialize Matlab use of the
"turtle" graph analysis package without an intervening tmexclse
call (or 'clear mex' on the command line in case a script did not
finish).  The interface to Matlab exit cleanup is not written to
handle two independent TRTLComm structures.  If it is not possible
to write the Matlab script to use only one common graph analyusis
setup, contact the author to remove this restriction.
131  HARROW
A pixel above cutoff was located, but when an attempt to begin a
harrow scan at that point, code indicated that the pixel was
out-of-bounds.  This can only be a coding error.
132  TFEAVEC
Graph features based on ELI distribution were requested, but ELI
values were not computed for this graph.
133  BBDCEXSI
Either an attempt was made to store more than one control card
to be passed to a CNS server, or bbdcexsi() was called after
bbdcinit().
134  BBDCMEX
An error occurred using a POSIX semaphore to coordinate
execution of the bbdcminp and bbdcmlog subprocesses with
the main Matlab process.  Please contact GNR.
# 135-139 BBD server
135  BBDSEVNT
An attempt to check whether data were available on a socket
from a BBD client gave a system error--details are in message
text if available.
136  BBDSREGE/BBDSREGS/BBDSREGT/BBDSREGV
A parameter from CNS being used to establish a link to a BBD
is outside the valid ranger for that parameter.
137  BBDSFHNM
CNS is running as a BBD server, but it did not receive the
IP address and port for communicating with the BBD.
138  BBDSFHNM
A port number specified for a BBD client contained a
nonnumeric character.
139  BBDSCHK/BBDSGETS/BBDSGETT/BBDSGETV
Incorrect confirmation data was received from the BBD client.
# 140-150 BBD client
140  BBDCINIT
The network process (CNS) terminated.  The CNS termination
code is given in the text for this message.
141  BBDCINIT
Unable to create a socket to invoke CNS.
142  BBDCINIT
Unable to locate IP address for given CNS host or unable
to open a connection to the CNS server.
143  BBDCINIT
Unable to open specified log file for CNS output or to fork a
process to maintin the log.
144  BBDCINIT
Unable to install a termination signal handler for the log process,
error receiving log data from CNS, error writing to the log, or
error closing the log file on BBD termination.
145  BBDCINIT
Error while sending CNS control file to CNS server from a vBBD.
146  BBDCREGE/BBDCREGS/BBDCREGT/BBDCREGV
A parameter being passed from a BBD to CNS is outside the valid
range for that parameter.
147  BBDCCHK
An error occurred while checking the configuration with the
neural network simulator.  Either configuration data could not
be read at all, or was read and disagreed with BBD configuration.
148  BBDCGET/BBDCPUT
An error occurred while the BBD was exchanging data with the
neural system server.  Either a protocol control integer did
not have the expected value, a zero-length message was received
from the server, or an I/O error occurred on the socket.
149  BBDMEX
A Matlab program using the bbdmex interface to run CNS as a
BBD client passed an incorrect number or type of arguments to
the bbdmex routine.
150  BBDCINIT (MAX OS)
bbdcinit was unable to locate the home directory of the user.
It is expected that the executables for the bbdcminp and bbdcmlog
processes are located in ${HOME}/bin.
151  DUMPGMF
Either too few or too many command-line parameters were provided.
152  DUMPGMF
An unrecognized command-line switch was entered.  (If the name of
the input file begins with a minus sign, enter a minus sign and a
single space before it to prevent interpretation as an option switch.)
153  DUMPGMF
More than one apparent file name was entered on the command line.
154  DUMPGMF
The name of the graphics metafile to be dumped must be entered.
155  DUMPGMF
The file does not have "PLOTDATA V1C" in the header.
156  RNGRINIT
A range-finder parameter is outside the allowe range or
incompatible with the specified bitmap.  The specific cause
is given in the error message.
157  RNGRGET
An error occurred attempting to sense virtual range-finder objects
in a bitmap.  The specific cause is given in the error message.
158  AZTVCCHK
There is an incompatibility between the definition of a camera,
its geometry, and the bitmap it is supposed to access.  The
specific cause is given in the error message.
159  AZTVINIT
The opening angle of an rotating camera receptive field is
less than 15 degrees, which probably is not what is intended.
160  ENVLIM
Asked to place or find bounds of nonexistent shape.
161  WDW_NARB or WDW_NVWR
A window in the environment had an invalid kchng specification.
162  ENVCYC
A computed object coordinate exceeded an internal program limit
(32767 pixels in x or y).
163  LIBPREP
Error writing record in library file.
165  CrkParse
Invalid command-line parameters.  The correct syntax is:
CrkParse [+r] [-r] [+e] [-e] filename
166  CrkParse
CrkParse received an invalid or unexpected prompt from
the application that called it.
167  CrkParse
The level of nested parentheses on a control card exceeds the
maximum that CrkParse was compiled for.  This can be increased
without needing to change anything in the ROCKS library.
168  NNPFL/NNGFL
On a parallel computer, a call was made to broadcast a block
of information from the host node to the comp nodes and the
function MPI_Bcast returned the error code given in the message.
169  ANTEST
A call in a parallel program to test whether a particular
message had been received from another node returned an error
code.  If text error output is available, the specific error
code will be printed.
170  mffm
Unable to allocate the amount of memory requested for frame
data storage.
171  mffm
Attempt to append data to a frame before an mffm_store() call.
172  mffm
An error was returned by a semaphore operation.
173  mffm
Attempt to load data to or from a frame that has not been created.
174  mffm
Unable to release frames because oldest frame is locked.
175  mffm
The frame specified for storing data is not write-locked.
176  mffm
The frame specified for retrieving data is not read-locked.
177  mffm
An pointer argument was NULL or count or frame argument was <= 0.
# 180-198 Codes for obsolete GAMPLOT package now allocated for
# 180-197 CRK support of traditional printf(), etc. output.
180  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A '%' code in an output format was unrecognized in context.
181  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
The length of an output buffer (internal or user-provided)
was exceeded.
182  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A negative count was picked up from the argument list by a '*'
repeat code or a repeat count in the format overflowed (unlikely).
183  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A zero repeat count was specified for a format string encolsed in
parentheses or angle brackets.
184  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
An array dimension or brackets was specified in a format before
a previous array had been fully processed.
185  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A digit was found in a format where not allowed (viz. before
'N','O','S','V','0','%%',';',')','>','~','#','&','-','+',' ','?' codes).
186  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A digit was not found in a format where one is required (viz. before
'b','B','R','r','T','Z','=','<','^','.' or '|' or '/' codes when used to
delimit binary scales).
187  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A number in a format was outside the acceptable range, e.g.
'n' in '%nP' (priority) was outside the range 1 <= n <= 5, or
'n' in '%n!' (error level) was outside 1 <= n <= 8, or
'n' in '%nY' (spout count) was greater than 255, or
'n' in '%nr' (repeat count) was 0, or
a width was negative or greater than 32.
188  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A string was being output with a '%s' format code within an
indexing structure (angle brackets) and no width was specified.
This is because different strings can have different lengths,
but when indexing is used, all must be coerced to the same length.
189  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A format code ('~') specified that an item should be skipped and
replaced with blanks, but the width of the item was not specified.
190  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A format code specified an incompatible length modifier,
for example, 'jQ'.
191  RKPRINTF/PRINTF/FPRINTF/RFPRINTF/SPRINTF/SNPRINTF
A 'K' format was given to output option keys, but the end of the
argument list was reached attempting to read the key string.
198  VECOLLECT
A negative data length was passed to the vector collect routine.
This may have been left from an obsolete usage of this routine.
199  IBCDWT/UBCDWT/WBCDWT
An internal check error occurred in a decimal output routine.
Please contact the author with details.
# 200-208 COPPACK/COPUNPK
200  COPPACK
Program that gathers statistics requested concatenation of statistical
blocks being collected to PAR0 node, but there was no previous block
to join.
201  COPPACK
Program that gathers statistics requests repetition of an operation
on an array, but the number of repeated operations was larger than
the number of operations provided in the COPDEF list.
202  COPPACK
Program that gathers statistics encountered a repeat operation code
while executing a series of repeats -- nesting is not implemented.
203  COPPACK
Data being gathered to PAR0 node were broken up into more than 1023
separate blocks, a program memory limitation.  See author if this
is really needed--seems very unlikely.
204  COPPACK
Program that gathers statistics found that data from different
nodes at the same location were of different types.  Probable
programming error, please report to the author.
205  COPPACK
Program that gathers statistics attempted to reuse or free a CPKDEF
block that had already been freed by a call to copfree() 
206  COPPACK
The buffer size argument to coppini was too small for any practical
use.  It should be an absolute minimum of 200 bytes.
207  COPPACK
An internode message being received as part of a statistics
collection operation gave an error.  The error code is reported
in the message.
208  COPPACK
An internode message being sent as part of a statistics
collection operation gave an error.  The error code is reported
in the message.
209  MFSR
The MFSR process, which gathers graphics commands from nodes on
a parallel computer and passes them to mfdraw, terminated without
a valid error code.  Probably a programming error, please report
to the author.
# 210-237 MFSR or plot startup traditional messages
# (Use ranges 238-239 (exit) and 260-289 (abexit) for new msgs)
210  PLOT_PKG
Unable to allocate memory for metafile buffers, etc.
211  PLOT_PKG
Cannot identify host where graphics server resides.
212  PLOT_PKG
Cannot find HOME in environment.
213  PLOT_PKG
Error reading button message from graphics user interface (mfdraw).
214  PLOT_PKG
The buffer allocated for a plot metafile was too small to contain
information that must be kept together, such as plotting state or
one row of a bitmap.
215  PLOT_PKG
An error occurred while trying to read acknowledgement of a graphics
frame from MFSR, the process that gathers graphics commands from
nodes on a parallel computer and passes them to mfdraw.
216  MFSR
The MFSR process, which gathers graphics commands from nodes on
a parallel computer and passes them to mfdraw, was not able to
parse the startup message sent to it by the application.  This
is probably a programming error, please report to the author.
217  PLOT_PKG
Overflow--a parameter to mfdraw (e.g. screen size, buffer length) is
larger than the space allowed in the initialization message.
218  PLOT_PKG
The graphics library received from the graphics server more
acknowledgements of frames received than the number of frames
sent to the server.
219  PLOT_PKG
Error reading interprocessor message from graphics user
interface program (mfdraw).
220  PLOT_PKG
Error, presumably in a graphics system call, returned to
application from graphics interface server program (mfdraw).
221  PLOT_PKG
Error returned by select system call or MPI probe call attempting
to determine whether an acknowledgment or button press information
was received from the mfdraw or mfsr graphics server.
222  PLOT_PKG
Error writing socket to graphics user interface program (mfdraw).
223  PLOT_PKG
Error creating socket for writing graphics commands to
graphics user interface program (mfdraw).
224  PLOT_PKG
Error opening graphics metafile.
225  PLOT_PKG
Error connecting socket to graphics user interface program (mfdraw).
226  PLOT_PKG
Error closing graphics metafile.
227  PLOT_PKG
Error writing to graphics metafile.
228  PLOT_PKG
Error closing socket to graphics user interface program (mfdraw).
229  PLOT_PKG
A program (mfsr or mfdraw) that was reading a metafile encountered an
unsupported/undocumented format or instruction code.
230  PLOT_PKG
mfsr plot serializer process got an error trying to send an ack
message to the host (PAR0) node, or the host node had an error
reading an acknowledgement for graphics buffer sent to mfsr.
231  MFSR
mfsr process got an error trying to read a graphics command buffer
from a node on a parallel computer.  The MPI error code is reported.
232  MFWRITE,MFSR
Size of metafile exceeds 2GB and running on a 32-bit operating
system.  May also occur with the old plot library on a 64-bit system.
233  PLOT_PKG
Cannot find or open specified display.
234  SETMF/MFSR
NULL name given for metafile.
235  MFSYNCH/MFSR
A message acknowledging writing of graphics information to mfsr
or mfdraw contained user button press information for a window
that does not exist.
236  NEWPLTW/NEWWIN
An attempt was made to start a plot on a window that had not
previously been opened by a call to newwin(), or some node(s)
in a parallel computer got out of synch and did not agree on
the number of the next window to be opened.
237  NEWWIN
An attempt was made to open more than 65535 graphics windows.
# 238-239 Space for future messages reported via mfckerr
# 240-259 GDITOOLS
240  GDITOOLS
File does not appear to be V.3 SIMDATA.
241  GDITOOLS
Found data while reading level names in SIMDATA file.
242  GDITOOLS
Found data while reading variable defs in SIMDATA file.
243  GDITOOLS
Type or length of variable in SIMDATA file is invalid.
244  GDITOOLS
Expected segment header in SIMDATA file not found.
245  GDITOOLS
SIMDATA file does not contain requested segment.
246  GDITOOLS
Found data before LENGTH record in SIMDATA file.
247  GDITOOLS
Reached end of header, but no data items were defined.
248  GDITOOLS
Record length recorded in header does not match length of data items.
249  GDITOOLS
Expecting selector id followed by blank in SIMDATA selector.
250  GDITOOLS
Expecting level num followed by blank in SIMDATA selector.
251  GDITOOLS
Expecting selector at level 1 in SIMDATA file.
252  GDITOOLS
Invalid level structure in SIMDATA file.  Node had two
successors at same level or no legal attachment point.
253  GDITOOLS
Expecting level name followed by blank in SIMDATA selector.
254  GDITOOLS
Encountered level name not listed in SIMDATA file header.
255  GDITOOLS
End of range is below start in SIMDATA selector.
256  GDITOOLS
Bad punctuation in variable list in SIMDATA selector.
257  GDITOOLS
Undefined variable in SIMDATA selector.
259  GDITOOLS
Expected selector continuation not found.
# 260-289 Obsolete plot package codes -- available for reuse
# for messages reported via abexit (above 256 iexit limit)
260  MFSR
The given error code occurred when mfsr, the graphics command
collator, tried to read its startup message.
261  NEWPLT/NEWPLTW
The application called newplt() to start a new plot, but endplt()
had already been called, which shut down the mfdraw interface and
metafile writing.
262  NXTUPUSH/NXTUPOP
While attempting to specify a pair of structure/union conversion
tables for interprocessor transfer, either the depth of the
pushdown stack (3) was exceeded, or the stack was empty when popped.
263  MFCKERR
More than one error was detected in a single call to the graphics
package.  The hexadecimal error code is printed.  Bits in this code
can be compared to definitions in header file mfio.h to identify
the errors.
264  BMPXSZ
A function was called to determine how many bytes are needed to store
one pixel in an image, but the color mode specified was not one
defined in plotdefs.h.
265  SYMBC
A call was made to plot text continuing at the current plotting
position, but there was no previous call that left this information.
283  ENDPLT
In a parallel computer, endplt() was called to terminate plotting
before newplt() was called (probably due to an earlier control
file error), but it was still necessary to shut down the mfsr
process if it was running.  This error occurs if communication
with mfsr was unsuccessful even though status codes indicated
it had been started by aninit().
284  MFCREATE
At parallel startup, routine mfcreate() attempted to send setmf
information (host, display, etc.) to mfsr or mfdraw and the
MPI_Send returned the error code given in the message.
285  PLOT_PKG
Application requested an unsupported graphics metafile format.
286  CHGWIN
Program attempted to draw in a graphics window that was not
yet defined.
287  PENCOL
A hexadecimal blue-green-red value passed to the pencol()
routine did not have either exactly 3 hex digits (12-bit 'X'
color format) or exactly 6 hex digits (24-bit 'Z' color format).
288  POLYLN
An unsupported or undefined polyline plot type was requested.
289  BITMAP,BIMAPS
An unsupported color format was requested for plotting a bitmap.
# 290-295 GNRVERSN
290  GNRVERSN
An error occurred while performing a routine setup operation
needed for gnrversn to execute and communicate with the
svnversion component of the subversion version control system.
The exact cause is given in the error message and is one of:
--Unable to create a pipe
--Unable to fork
--Unable to duplicate a pipe file descriptor to act as
stdout for svnversion.
--Unable to close a pipe file descriptor after duplicating it.
291  GNRVERSN
An error occurred while trying to run svnversion other than
not finding the program on the path.
292  GNRVERSN
An error occurred while waiting for svnversion to return,
or it exited abnormally, or an error occurred reading the
version number returned by svnversion through a pipe or
closing the pipe.
293  GNRVERSN
An error occurred opening, writing to, or closing the hidden
file .gnrsvvsn to hold version information for this project.
294  GNRVERSN
An error occurred opening, reading from, or closing the hidden
file .gnrsvvsn that holds version information for this project
when it has been copied to a folder where svnversion is not
accessible.
295  GNRVERSN
An error occurred while writing the result of gnrversn to stdout
or closing stdout.
298  MLBITCNT
A call to mlbitcnt (a mex file for counting the number of one
bits in a matlab array) had incorrect argument numbers of types.
299  LMBITSEL
A call to lbitsel (a mex file for creating a matlab logical
selector array) had incorrect argument numbers or types.
# 300-329 GETGD3 (Matlab reader for SIMDATA files)
300  GETGD3
Internal error trap--invalid node data structure found.
301  GETGD3
An apparent selector name in a cell array was not a string.
302  GETGD3
A name-type selector was longer than allowed (12 characters).
303  GETGD3
Exactly one result array is required.
304  GETGD3
Not enough arguments--
at least one selector and one time must be given.
305  GETGD3
The first argument must be a valid file name.
306  GETGD3
The second argument must be a segment number.
307  GETGD3
The third argument must be a valid variable name.
308  GETGD3
The number of selectors does not match
the level of the data item in the SIMDATA file.
309  GETGD3
Time selectors must be numeric.
310  GETGD3
A level name in a full-form selector is not a simple string.
311  GETGD3
A level name in a full-form selector is too long.
312  GETGD3
A range must begin with a positive integer.
313  GETGD3
A range must be in ascending order.
314  GETGD3
A range increment must be nonzero.
315  GETGD3
A selector argument has bad type or dimension.
316  GETGD3
Requested variable not found in SIMDATA file.
317  GETGD3
Requested time point not found.
# 330-359 nxdr2
330  NXDR
An incorrect number of command-line parameters was found.
A synopsis showing the allowed arguments is printed.
331  NXDR
An unrecognized command-line switch option was found.
332  NXDR
The required input include file (-f option) was not specified.
333  NXDR
The required input object list file (-b option) was not specified
or the file had no valid object names in it.
334  NXDR
Unable to create a temporary script file for running the
C preprocessor to process the include file (-f option).
Check permissions in the current working directory.
335  NXDR
An error was returned while trying to process the specified
include file (-f option) with the C preprocessor.
336  NXDR
Unable to open the specified .c output file.
Check permissions in the current working directory.
337  NXDR
Unable to open the specified .h output file.
Check permissions in the current working directory.
338  NXDR
Unable to open the output file produced by running the file
named in the -f option with the C proprocessor.
339  NXDR
The result of evaluating an array dimension expression is longer
than an internal limit (32 chars) in the nxdr program.  This
problem is most likely due to a coding error in the input file.
340  NXDR
Unable to open the specified object list file (-b option).
341  NXDR
Invalid tokens or punctuation were found in the object list file
(-b option).  Key names should be separated only by whitespace.
342  NXDR
A C syntax error has been detected in the input file (-f option).
Some information to help locate the error is printed.
343  NXDR
While scanning the user's C code to find a matching curly, round,
or square bracket, an unmatching right bracket of another type or
the end of the input file was reached.
344  NXDR
One or more of the specified key names was not found in the input
data.  A list of the undefined items is printed.
345  NXDR
A function was specified as a key name.  Functions cannot be
copied between unlike processors, therefore, a conversion table
cannot be generated for this item.
346  NXDR
The named key type has an incomplete dimension or a dimension
that is not a constant expression.  It is not possible to
construct a conversion table for this item.
347  NXDR
Unable to create, compile, or run a temporary .c program file
that is needed to evaluate a complex dimension expression.
348  NXDR
Unable to open or read the specified include file (-f option)
while trying to copy it into the output .c file.
349  NXDR
Unable to position the preprocessor output file at a previously
saved newline position while trying to print context for a
source code error.
350  NXDR
An I/O error occurred while trying to read the preprocessor
output file.
351  NXDR
An object is defined more than once in the source program.
352  NXDR
Unable to open a temporary file used to redirect output from
the C compiler while trying to evaluate a complex dimension
expression.  Check permissions in the current working directory.
353  NXDR
The definition of the object was started but never completed.
354  NXDR
A conversion table for an anonymous structure or union requires
the size of that object.  Revise the source program to give
a tag or typedef name to the specified type.
355  NXDR
A conversion table is being constructed for a type that is or
contains an item of type 'void'.  Because the program cannot
determine how to convert this item to or from message format,
a conversion table cannot be generated for this type.
357  NXDR
Internal error--processing an element of a union, a name should
have been created for the conversion table, but it was not.
358  NXDR
Internal error--attempted to create a type definition record for
an object with no components.
359  NXDR
Internal error--attempting to generate a name for an anonymous
structure or union, the parent did not have a name, or the name
of a declarator of the object was not saved.
# 360-369 MEMTEST
361  MEMTEST
Some memory blocks were allocated on host and comp nodes if
testing in a parallel computer.  The length of the allocated
memory did not match the lengths of the various blocks.
362  MEMTEST
Contents of memory was not correct after a membcst() call.
363  MEMTEST
Integer data or pointers were not updated correctly when new
blocks were added to existing dynamic data structures.
364  MEMTEST
Data or pointers were not updated correctly when an existing
block was expanded by use of allocprv().
365  MEMTEST
Data or pointers were not updated correctly when an existing
block was contracted by use of allocprv().
367  MEMTEST
The resend mode of membcst() was tested by faking a situation
where memory was too fragmented to allocate a new block.  A
list is provided of data items that did not survive this process.
368  MEMTEST
A test failed that involved changing the pool to which an
existing memory block belonged.
371  GD2TO3
Command line does not have two arguments: <infile> and <outfile>.
372  GD2TO3
Input and output files are the same.
373  GD2TO3
Input file is not in SIMDATA V.2 format.
374  GD2TO3
An item is typed as real, but it's length is not 4 or 8.
380  ELIBDUMP
Incorrect or wrong number of command line parameters.
381  ELIBDUMP
Display not found in environment.
382  ELIBDUMP
Input file apparently is not a shape library.
383  ELIBDUMP
The name of an item in a shape library file does not match
the name in the index of that file.  The file is probably
corrupt beyond all repair and should be rebuilt.
384  ELIBDUMP
An item in the shape library file has an unrecognized format
code.  The file is probably corrupt beyond all repair and
should be rebuilt.
385  ELIBDUMP
An item in the shape library file has a negative x or y
dimension.  The file is probably corrupt beyond all repair and
should be rebuilt.
390  D1INPREP
A control card is placed at an invalid location in the input
file.  This card must come before any cycling is initiated.
391  D1INPREP
A generated D1 block number exceeded the number of blocks
that were supposed to be generated.
392  D1INPREP
The program was terminated due to errors in the control file.
A specific message should precede this one.
393  D1INPREP
The program was terminated due to errors discovered in
setup processing.  A specific message should precede this one.
400  snv8dump
The snv8dump command syntax is:  snv8dump <savenet-file-path>.
401  snv8dump
The file specified for an snv8dump does not appear to be
a CNS Version 8 SAVENET file.
402  snv8dump
While dumping a CNS SAVENET file, a format error was found.
A particular header was not found where it was expected based
on the counts of different header types contained earlier in
the file.
# 410-499 CNS
410 CNS
A library routine exited.  The error code is printed in the
text of the error 410 message.
411 CNS
The input file specified more objects of the kind listed in the
error message than could be accommodated by the variable type
used in the program to access those objects.  The program must
be recompiled with a larger type for counters and indexes for
those objects.
412 CNS
The size of an array requested in CNS is larger than a program
limit.  If the requested number of items is really necessary for
the model, CNS be reprogrammed to eliminate the current size
limit for the variable in question (should be named in the
error message).
413 CNS
You asked to restore data from a save file with a higher number
than the number of save files specified in Group 0.
414 CNS
Ran out of connection list files.
415 CNS
Error checking input file.
416 CNS
Replay file structure wrong.
417 CNS
The magnitude of a value read from an external source (BBD)
was outside the allowed range (0 to 1).
418 CNS
CONNLIST bad value (cell too large, etc.).
419 CNS
Attempting to reset Cij to their initial values,
but the initial values (Cij0) were not saved.  Use SAVECIJ0
option on RESET card before first trial series begins.
420 CNS
Error exit flag set by library I/O routine.
Possible causes are:
  (1) Error in control file
  (2) Error interpreting input data file
  (3) Bad command-line parameter
  (4) Error accessing external device
421 CNS
Parallel run requires more than 1 node but only 1 node was available.
422 CNS
In a parallel run, the number of unique stimuli encountered in a
trial series exceeded 32767, which is the maximum that can be
handled by the current code for gathering statistics from comp
nodes.  This could be fixed by expanding the coppack calls to
a loop over blocks of < 32768 stimuli.
423 CNS
The area of a geometric connection arbor exceeds the area of the
source cell array.
424 CNS
Premature EOF on replay file.
425 CNS
Value-modulated amplification bounds exceeded.
426 CNS
Arithmetic overflow in calc of s(i).  Try lower scales.
427 CNS
An image preprocessor gave an error exit.  The reason code is printed.
428 CNS
The length of the items requested to be recorded in a SIMDATA file
for one simulation trial exceeds 32 bits.  Probable input error.
429 CNS
Video driver error--see /home/nsi/incl/vvuser.h.
430 CNS
User requested that pixel values in an image be rescaled, but the
image was so large that the calculation could not be completed
on a 32-bit machine.
431 CNS
Attempt to pause but not running in ONLINE mode.
432 CNS
Error in pause message.
433 CNS (Obsolete)
Video disk generic error.
434 CNS (Obsolete)
Video disk disp recorder error.
435 CNS (Obsolete)
Video disk env recorder error.
436 CNS
Requested cell number does not exist.
437 CNS (Obsolete)
Bad pointer detected while printing control blocks.
438 CNS
Required item not found in RESTORE file.  You are probably
reading a SAVENET file prepared with an incompatible earlier
version of CNS.  The KEY given indicates the nature of the
missing item and can be looked up in source file savblk.h.
439 CNS
Item in restore file had incompatible type, i.e. type that is
not compatible with the type defined in current versions of CNS.
440 CNS
A CIJPLOT or similar plot required mapping of connection source
locations onto the plot, but this information is not available.
441 CNS
Run-time calls to user programs are not supported by this
operating system.
442 CNS
Problem connecting to BBD.
443 CNS
Problem trying to open, read, or write the .cnsrunno file which
records the current run number in the current directory.
444 CNS
An imput image is too small to apply the requested preprocessor
(for example, image smaller than modification kernel to be
applied).
445 CNS
Error involving writing a CNS version information file
(perhaps bad CNS_VERSFILE environment variable).
447 CNS
Node-node communication read error.
448 CNS
Node-node communication write error.
449 CNS
CNS encountered an error that allowed it to continue to the end
of the current trial, print statistics, and save accumulated data
in SIMDATA and SAVENET files.  The error is reported in the standard
output file at the point of occurrence; this error 449 is given at
the end of execution to emphasize that the run was not complete.
450 CNS/FATALE/FATALPE
Exit requested by some component of a parallel program.
If the system state is sufficiently intact at the time
of the error, this code will be accompanied by a message
giving a more specific error code and text.
482 CNS
A bad format string was passed to the getthr routine.
483 CNS
Effector control blocks were incorrectly threaded to the
appropriate cell type blocks.
484 CNS
An array to contain value signals was not allocated.
485 CNS
A line generated by the detailed print routine was too long
for the output buffer.
486 CNS
An Lij generating routine for code B ("Box") connections was
asked to generate a number of connections larger than the
specified size of the box.
487 CNS
A color selector was encountered that is not defined,
488 CNS
A conductance referenced a nonexistent connection type
as its activation source.
491 CNS
Tried to initialize more s(i)'s than implied by specified delay.
492 CNS
Number of cell variables to be restored is inconsistent.
493 CNS
Unexpected end of cijplot communication with comp node at
give celltype and cell number.
494 CNS
ION on CELLTYPE has no REGION.
495 CNS
Unsupported Lij generating option selected.
496 CNS
Detail print got out of synchronization with stored cell data.
497 CNS
Finkel amplification requested is not yet supported.
498 CNS
An attempt was made to connect a modulatory input or virtual touch
pad to a one-dimensional signal source or a source with a color
mode that is not currently handled (type code in message).
499 CNS (Obsolete, now is 450)
Library function called abexit with no code.
# 500-509 GRFEDIT
501 GRFEDIT
This program does not accept any command-line arguments.
The control file should be provided via stdin.
502 GRFEDIT
Unaccepted control statement to grfedit.
The recognized statements are OUTPUT and INCLUDE.
503 GRFEDIT
Uninterpretable input data format.
504 GRFEDIT
The named input file does not appear to be a saved game
or is an earlier, incompatible, version.
505 GRFEDIT
An INCLUDE card has been read, but no OUTPUT file has been
specified.
506 GRFEDIT
The length of a path name recorded in the game file header
is longer than an internal program limit (255 chars).
507 GRFEDIT
An INCLUDE file did not have the same game parameters as
another INCLUDE file being merged into the same output.
The details of which parameters differ are printed in
the error message.
508 GRFEDIT
End-of-file was found on an INCLUDE file before a specified
numbered game was reached.
# 510-519 GRFDUMP
511 GRFDUMP
The syntax to run the grfdump command is
grfdump [-v] <grf-file-name>
The [-v] option dumps the whole file, default is just header.
512 GRFDUMP
Please provide just one file name to the grfdump command.
514 GRFDUMP
The named input file does not appear to be a saved game
or is an earlier or later incompatible, version.
518 GRFDUMP
End-of-file was found reading a TankWar game replay file header
or an embedded file name of a bitmap or sound file.
# 520-529 SPP2SIM
520 SPP2SIM
A numeric value passed to the SPP2 simulator for setting a
register or memory value exceeded 16 bits.
521 SPP2SIM
A numeric value passed to the SPP2 simulator for setting the
program counter (i.e. jump address) or for storing a program
instruction into program memory exceeded the memory size
allocated for the program being simulated or the maximum
address that can be accommodated in a jump command (10 bits).
522 SPP2SIM
A call was made to the SPP2 simulator that attempted to
assign a value to an accumulator stack or return address
stack beyond the stack depth provided by the SPP2 hardware
(currently 5 for accumulator, 2 for CALL return address).
523 SPP2SIM
A call was made to the SPP2 simulator that attempted to
assign a value to an operand register beyond the number
of registers provided by the SPP2 hardware (currently 16).
524 SPP2SIM
A call was made to the SPP2 simulator that attempted to
assign a value to a memory location beyond the number of
memory locations assigned to this virtual machine or beyond
the maximum address that can be accommodated in a data
access instruction (11 bits).
525 SPP2SIM
[Unassigned]
526 SPP2SIM
A call was made to the SPP2 simulator to execute an instruction,
but the instruction is not defined in the current op code list.
527 SPP2SIM
A call was made to the SPP2 simulator to execute an instruction,
but a field in the instruction that is defined to be always zero
was not zero.
# 530-539 SPP2DBG
530 SPP2DBG
A request was made to run a program or to execute an instruction
from a program, but no program was loaded.
531 SPP2DBG
An attempt was made to load an SPP2 memory data (.bin) file.
Either the file did not exist, or it could not be opened
(possibly a permissions problem), or it could not be closed
or repositioned to the top.
532 SPP2DBG
The specified SPP2 memory data (.bin) file did not appear to be
in the format of an SPP2 .bin file, or it did not contain enough
records to load the record specified in the 'mdr' command.
533 SPP2DBG
An internal bookkeeping error occurred such that it appeared that
memory above the maximum data memory space of the NPU had been
modified, when other tests prevent this.  Please bring to
attention of G.N.R.
534 SPP2DBG
An attempt was made to load a nas symbol table (.sym) file.
Either the file did not exist, or it could not be opened
(possibly a permissions problem).
535 SPP2DBG
The specified symbol table (.sym) file did not appear to be
in the format of the symbol table output by the nas assembler.
Assembler version 2.6 or later is required.
# 540-549 DUMPNORB
540 DUMPNORB
Wrong number of arguments.  Only the name of the file to be
dumped should be given on the command line.
541 DUMPNORB
Unable to open category file.
542 DUMPNORB
Unable to read category file.
543 DUMPNORB
Unable to close category file.
544 DUMPNORB
Unable to open information file.
545 DUMPNORB
Unable to read information file.
546 DUMPNORB
Unable to close information file.
547 DUMPNORB
Did not reach end-of-file simultaneously on info
and category files.
548 DUMPNORB
Unable to allocate memory.
549 DUMPNORB
Information out of documented range in a header file.
# 550-557 mklijS1.
550 MKLIJS1
The command line must specify just one argument, the name of
the output file.  The input is read from stdin (and may be
redirected from a file).
551 MKLIJS1
Any of various input errors was detected.  There should be
a line of output explaining the particular error.
552 MKLIJS1
An internal calculation found that the size of at least one
template was so large that it would not fit on the specified
source image size.  This is probably an input error.
553 MKLIJS1
A location was topographically selected to place a rotated
template on an input image, but this location was outside
the boundaries of the image.  This is probably due to an
error in the code.  Please bring to attention of GNR.
554 MKLIJS1
A template was rotated to a new position to form the center
of a new subarbor.  This location was outside the image.
A method of moving it to the edge of the image that is
mathematically guaranteed to find a solution did not.
This is probably due to an error in the code.  Please
bring to attention of GNR.
555 MKLIJS1
In the absence of COMPAT=2 compilation, the program is
trying to move each rotated template to the corresponding
rotated feature detector in the source, but the number of
source rotations (nfd) is not an even multiple of the
number of target rotations (ntmr).
558 DUMPCLST
The command line must specify just one argument, the name of
the input file to be dumped.
559 SORT2TST malloc failed to allocate data or work space.
# 560-569  BBDCINIT mex file errors
560 BBDCINIT
The bbdcinit mex call must have at least 2 at not more
than 6 arguments.
561 BBDCINIT
A value passed to Cns in a variable definition must be a
MATLAB string.  Convert numeric values with sprintf.
562 BBDCINIT
The name of a variable being passed to Cns in a variable
definition is longer than the name length limit
(currently 7 characters).
563 BBDCINIT
The string passed to Cns in a variable definition must not
exceed the current length for a scanned value in the Cns
control file syntax (currently 16 characters).
564 BBDCINIT
The call to bbdcinit that is expected to be a path to a
CNS control file is not a character string or is empty.
565 BBDCINIT
The call to bbdcinit that is expected to be a path to a
CNS output log file is not a character string or is empty.
566 BBDCINIT
The call to bbdcinit contained a retver argument that did
not fit the requirement of being a 32-bit integer scalar.
567 BBDCINIT
The call to bbdcinit contained a host name argument that is
not a character string or is empty.
568 BBDCINIT
The call to bbdcinit contained a port number argument that
did not fit the requirement of being a 32-bit integer scalar.
569 BBDCMINP
A variable definition was received that is too long to fit on
a standard crk library input line.  Perhaps this could be
shortened to two or more variables whose values can be
concatenated in the control file.  Otherwise, see GNR for
a possible increase in the compiled maximum line length.
# 570-579  DUMPGD
570 DUMPGD
A SIMDATA file appeared to have more simulation cycles (NTC)
than specified in the header.  This is probably a defective
file.
571 DUMPGD
A SIMDATA file header defines a variable with a width that
is not 1,2,4, or 8 bytes.  This is probably a defective file.
572 DUMPGD
End-of-file was reached during a SIMDATA file dump before
reaching the end of the data described in the headers.
This is probably a defective file.
# 580-589 MPGATHER
587  MPGATHER
A block of data was being collected on the host node by
routine mpgather().  The offset in the final array of a
block of data received in one cycle of data collection
did not match the ending location of the data already
collected in earlier cycles.  This is due to a coding
error, please contact the author.
588  MPGATHER
A block of data was being collected on the host node by
routine mpgather().  The number of data blocks received
in one cycle of data collection did not match the number
specified in the header for that data transmission.  This
is due to a coding error, please contact the author.
# 590-599 SHOWMOVIE
590  ShowMovie
Unable to open the specified metafile.
591  ShowMovie
Unable to read one of the three header records from
the specified metafile.
592  ShowMovie
The specified metafile did not have header coding that
is expected in a proper metafile.
# 600-629 NORBMEX/NORFMEX
The error codes in the NORBMEX/NORFMEX series are not abexit
codes, but rather Matlab error message Id codes.
601 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
The norbmexset routine decides what type of call it is getting based
on the number of arguments:  One argument for the close-out call, two
for the revised-udata and reset calls, and six for the initialization
call.  The argument for the closeout call should be the NorbMexComm
array from a previous initialization call.  The arguments for the
revised-udata and reset calls are NorbMexComm and the new selector
string or the word 'reset', respectively.  These calls have no
return value.  The initialization call should have one return value
(the NorbMexComm array) and 6 arguments--a file name, four integers,
and a selection string.
602 NORBMEXSET/NORBMEXGET/NORFMEXSET/NORFMEXGET
The first argument to a NORBMEX function was not a NorbMexComm
array created by an earlier call to norbmexset().
603 NORBMEX/NORFMEX
An argument to a NORBMEX function did not have the type
or length specified in the documentation.
604 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
An error was generated trying to copy the 'fname' or 'udata'
argument.  This means either the program ran out of memory
(very unlikely) or there is some coding error with the string.
605 NORBMEXSET
The specified x or y size of the portion of a NORB image to be
sampled was either negative or greater than the size of the
images in the dataset (96 x 96).
606 NORBMEXSET/NORBMEXGET
The program ran out of memory trying to allocate space for an
internal image selection table, an image, or image id info.
607 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
A selector string for the variable named was missing a required
left paren.
608 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
More than one selector was given for some image specifier.
609 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
A selector specification for the variable named had one of the
following errors:
The selector had characters other than digits, minus signs, and
commas.
A range had more than one '-'.
A comma was not followed by a value or range.
The end of a range was a less than the start of the range.
A selector or range had values larger than the maximum
allowed for the variable named.
610 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
The total number of images selected exceeds the number of
images in the dataset.
611 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
Specified probabilities add to more than 1.0, or do not add to
near 1.0 (if all given), or do add to near 1.0 when not all are
given.
612 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
Random number seed or batch number not in parens, had nondigit
characters, or invalid numeric value.
613 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
More than one slash or plus delimiter in selector string.
614 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
An unrecognized letter code was found in a selector string.
615 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
An error occurred opening the specified file.
616 NORBMEXSET/NORBMEXGET/NORFMEXGET
A read error occurred on the specified file.
617 NORBMEXSET
The specified file did not have the expected headers
for a NORB dataset.
618 NORBMEXSET
Information read from a NORB dataset category or information
file provided a value for the variable named in the error
message that is outside the maximum range for that variable.
619 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
The number of images that match the given selectors exceeds
the product of the numbers selected in each variable.
This can only be a programming error.
620 NORBMEXSET
Setup program did not reach end-of-file simultaneously on
NORB info and category files.
621 NORBMEXSET/NORFMEXSET
An error occurred closing the specified file.
625 NORBMEXGET/NORFMEXGET
An error occurred seeking to a requested image.
626 NORBMEXGET
There were not two left-hand side arguments:
   image -- location where image will be returned
   isid  -- location where 6 image identifiers will be returned.
627 NORFMEXSET
The norfmexset routine decides what type of call it is getting
based on the number of arguments:  One argument for the close-out
call, two for the revised-udata and reset calls, and three for the
initialization call.  The argument for the closeout call should be
the NorfMexComm array from a previous initialization call.  The
arguments for the revised-udata and reset calls are NorfMexComm
and the new selector string or the word 'reset', respectively.
These calls have no return value.  The initialization call should
have one return value (the NorfMexComm array) and 3 arguments--
the response file name, an integer, and a selection string.
628 NORFMEXGET
There were not two left-hand side arguments:
   featVec -- location where response features will be returned
   isid    -- location where 6 image identifiers will be returned.
629 NORFMEXSET/NORFMEXGET
The program ran out of memory trying to allocate space for an
internal image selection table, a response vector, or image id info.
# 630-659 CITMEX
630 CITMEXSET/CITMEXGET
While attempting an operation with the citmexset or citmexget
programs (used to access the Caltech 101 image dataset from a
Matlab program), or during Matlab mex cleanup, the private saved
memory area (CitMexComm in the documentation) was found to be
corrupted.
631 CITMEXSET
The citmexset routine decides what type of call it is getting based
in part on the number of arguments:  Two arguments for the revise-
udata, reset, and closeout calls, five for the initialization call.
The arguments for the first set are (1) the NorbMexComm array from
a previous initialization call, and (2) a new selector string, the
word 'reset', or the word 'close', respectively.  These calls have
no return value.  The initialization call should have one return value
(the NorbMexComm array) and 5 arguments--a path to the directory where
the CIT 101 images are stored, the max image sizes along x and y to be
returned, a user selection string, and a logical control variable that
is 'true' to return colored images as red-green-blue values, 'false'
to convert colored image to their grayscale equivalents.
632 CITMEXSET/CITMEXGET
The first argument to a CITMEX function was not a CitMexComm
array created by an earlier call to citmexset().
633 CITMEXSET/CITMEXGET
An argument to a CITMEX function did not have the type or length
specified in the documentation, or the kopt argument to citmexset()
had both the '4' (paint out background now) and '8' (paint out
background later) bits set.
634 CITMEXSET/CITMEXGET
An error was generated trying to access or copy a string argument to
citmexset() or citrdimg().  This means either the program ran out of
memory (very unlikely) or there is some coding error with the string.
635 CITMEXSET
The specified maximum x or y size of the portion of a CIT 101 image
to be sampled, or the size of the added border around the cropped
area, was either negative or larger than the maximum size the code
is prepared to handle (65535).
636 CITMEXSET/CITMEXGET
The program ran out of memory trying to allocate space for an
internal image selection table, an image, or image id info.
637 CITMEXSET
While parsing image selections for the Caltech 101 image dataset,
an image category or image number selection list was malformed.
The list did not begin with a '('.
638 CITMEXSET
While parsing image selections for the Caltech 101 image dataset,
more than one consecutive image category list or image number list
was found.
639 CITMEXSET
A selector specification for the variable named had one of the
following errors:
The selector had characters other than digits, minus signs, and
commas.
A range had more than one '-'.
A comma was not followed by a value or range.
The end of a range was a less than the start of the range.
A selector or range had values less than 1 or larger than the
maximum allowed for the variable named.
640 CITMEXSET
One of the categories in the CIT 101 image dataset had more
images than the maximum the program is prepared to handle (800).
641 CITMEXSET
Specified probabilities add to more than 1.0, or do not add to
near 1.0 (if all given), or do add to near 1.0 when not all are
given.
642 CITMEXSET
Selector probability, random number seed, or batch number not
in parens, had nondigit characters, or invalid numeric value.
643 CITMEXSET
Two slashes, two plus signs, or two asterisks appeared before
a category or image selection list.  The only types of selector
lists that can be concatenated are those that involve a single
mode of selection (random, sequential, or permuted).
644 CITMEXSET
No images were selected, either globally or within a single
image category.  Possibly the low image number in a selection
sequence was higher than the number of image in the category.
645 CITMEXSET
An error occurred opening the specified top-level CIT 101
image dataset directory.
646 CITMEXSET
The batch size ('N' parameter) specified was larger than the
number of images in the selection list.
647 CITMEXSET
A category name did not match any category in the dataset.
648 CITMEXSET
The purported CIT 101 category directory had more or fewer
entries than the documented number of categories in the
dataset (101 plus 1 for backgrounds).
649 CITMEXSET
A category name in the CIT 101 directory did not start with
a letter 'a' through 'z' (upper or lower case).  Since the
distributed dataset satisfies this restriction, presumably
the wrong directory was read.
650 CITMEXSET
An error occurred closing the specified image subdirectory.
651 CITMEXGET
A call to the Matlab script "citrdimg" failed.  This script
is part of the citmex CIT image reader mex package and must
be available on the Matlab path.
652 CITMEXGET
Function citmexget requires one calling argument and one or two
return arguments.  If there is just one return value, it is an
array to receive the category and instance numbers (zero-based).
If there are two return values, the first receives the image and
the second receives the category/instance information.
653 CITRDIMG
The citrdimg.m script did not receive the required argument
giving a path to a CIT image annotation file.
654 CITMEXSET/CITMEXGET
An error occurred creating or accessing a semaphore used by the
Matlab mex-functions citmexset() or citmexget() to coordinate
memory access.  The error message should indicate the exact cause.
655 CITMEXSET
Two calls were made to citmexset to initialize Matlab access to the
Caltech image database without an intervening 'close' call (or
'clear mex' on the command line in case a script did not finish).
The interface to Matlab exit cleanup is not written to handle two
independent CitMexComm structures.  If it is not possible to
write the Matlab script to use only one common selection setup,
contact the author to remove this restriction.
656 CITMEXPBG
Function citmexpbg requires two calling arguments (CitMexComm and
the input image) and one return argument (the output masked image).
# 660-664  semrm
660  SEMRM
The semrm program is used to remove named semaphores from the
system.  It was called but no names were specified on the
command line.
661  SEMRM
The semrm program is used to remove named semaphores from the system.
The name given as argument could not be removed because no semaphore
with that name existed in the system at the time semrm was run.
# 670-679 SHENCAS
670  SHENCAS
A parameter to one of the Shen-Castan edge detection rouines
was outside the documented valid range.  The error message
should indicate which parameter was involved.
671  SHENCAS
The SCComm argument passed to one of the Shen-Castan edge
detection routines did not point to a memory area that
contained valid information.  Presumably some other program
wrote over this area between the sheninit() call and the
routine that failed.
672  SHENCAS
The part of shenedge() that extends contours by neighboring
point detection with hysteresis exceeded the fixed size of
a circular buffer where points to be checked are stored.
This buffer is large enough for all reasonable images, so
this error probably indicates a bug in the code.
673  SHENCAS
During Shen-Castan edge detection, the gradient of the image
was found to be constant.  Check the image.
674  SHENCAS
Routine shenedge() contains code to sort the gradient values
for candidate edge pixels in order to determine the upper and
lower hysteresis gradient cutoffs.  The list for sorting is
placed in storage earlier used for the Shen-Castan smoothness
filter.  This space was not large enough.  This could only
happen if the number of candidate edge pixels is more than
half the number of pixels in the image, which is very unlikely.
Consult the author.
678  SMEX
In the Shen-Castan edge-detection Matlab interface routines
(smexxxxx), an error occurred in trying to access shared
memory where some global information is kept.  This is most
likely caused by trying to use smexxxxx routines in two
separate copies of matlab.  The routines can be recoded to
handle this situation if necessary.
679  SMEX
One of the Shen-Castan edge-detection Matlab interface
routines received an invalid argument.  The error message
should indicate which argument was involved.
# 680-689 Programs using mdksallo()
# These are just 680 plus the error codes defined in mdks.h
681  MDKSALLO/MDKSFREE/MDKS1S/MDKS2S/MDKSDIVS
A bad work area was passed to one of these routines.
Be sure to call mdksallod (double data) or mdksallof (float data)
before using other routines in the mdks package.
682  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the dimensionality, k,
was zero or negative
683  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the dimensionality, k,
was so large that the work area would not fit in an address
space of 32 or 64 bits in a 32-bit or 64-bit operating system,
respectively.  This calculation allows for the need to store
4 * 2**k integer (or long) quadrant counts.
684  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the number of points
in the first data set was less than the dimensionality, k.
685  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the number of points
in the second data set was less than the dimensionality, k.
686  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the number of divisions
requested for the some dimension axis of the first data set
was larger than the size of the data set.
687  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the number of divisions
requested for the some dimension axis of the second data set
was larger than the size of the data set.
688  MDKSALLO
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, the calculated size of
the requested work area was too large to fit in an address
space of 32 or 64 bits in a 32-bit or 64-bit operating system,
respectively.  This calculation allows for the need to store
4 * 2**k integer (or long) quadrant counts, plus bricks and
pointers to the user data.
689
In a call to mdksallod or mdksallof, even though the size of
the requested work area was small enough to fit in the address
space, an attempt to allocate this area failed.  This is
because the preliminary size check does not take into account
the space required for the calling program and all its data.
687  MDKSALLO
One coordinate was constant.
688  MDKSALLO
Attempt to free an ill-composed work area.
# 690-694 MDKSOPT
690  MDKSOPT
Input error -- should be accompanied by an earlier message.
691  MDKSOPT
A bad work area was passed to mdks1s or mdks2s.
692  MDKSOPT
All the data were equal in one or more dimensions.
# 700-729  KEYEDIT
701  KEYEDIT
Negative response to getok()
702  KEYEDIT
Too few arguments
703  KEYEDIT
Bad command-line switch
704  KEYEDIT
No write permission for output
705  KEYEDIT
Path name is too long
706  KEYEDIT
Unable to create output directory or temporary file to hold
output for edit-in-place option.
707  KEYEDIT
Nonexistent directory specified
708  KEYEDIT
Too many inputs
709  KEYEDIT
Unable to expand home directory
710  KEYEDIT
Unable to access input file
711  KEYEDIT
No input found matching file spec
712  KEYEDIT
Input and output files are same
713  KEYEDIT
Unable to rename temp to input fn
714  KEYEDIT
Unable to get old timestamp
715  KEYEDIT
Unable to reset timestamp
716  KEYEDIT
Unable to get initial cwd
717  KEYEDIT
Unable to getcurdir on O/P drive
718  KEYEDIT
Illegally composed path name
719  KEYEDIT
Unable to open input directory
720  KEYEDIT
Error reading input directory
721  KEYEDIT
The key string found in an input file had an unexpected character
(not a digit or a digit larger than a defined option code).
This code may also be given for certain errors that should never
occur in parsing file or directory names (these would be due to
coding errors--please contact the author).
722  KEYEDIT
Unable to execute a system program
723  KEYEDIT
A key string was found in the source file but it did not have the
expected length (6 characters including leading and trailing '*')
or a character in the key string was not expected (not a digit).
This code is also given if an attempt to parse the regular expression
search string for finding the key code gave an error (this would be
a development error--please contact the author).
#730-739 READPNG/GETPNG
730  READPNG
Unable to open requested png image file.
731  READPNG
Opened a png image file for reading but the header bytes could
not be read.
732  READPNG
A supposed png image file was opened for reading but the header
information did not match the signature of a png file.
733  READPNG
An error was returned by a libpng function.  These do not have
specific error numbers -- the text should describe the error.
734  READPNG
The libpng function png_create_read_struct returned a NULL
pointer.  No reason is available; perhaps not enough memory?
735  READPNG
The libpng function png_create_info_struct returned a NULL
pointer.  No reason is available; perhaps no enough memory?
736  READPNG
An image file was read by the libpng routines but the format
(but depth, color mode, alpha channel) was not compatible
with the routine that was trying to process it.
#740-749 TIFFCAM
740  TIFFCAMSET
An attempt was made to open a tiff image file, but the libtiff
function TIFFOpen returned 0, indicating an error.  A text message
may have been written to stderr.
741  TIFFCAMSET
An attempt was made to open a tiff image file, but the file
descriptor was already set to work with this or another file.
742  TIFFCAMSET
An attempt was made to open a tiff image file, but no file name
was given.
743  TIFFCAMSET
Library routine TIFFReadScanline returned -1 indicating an error.
A text message may have been written to stderr.
744  TIFFCAMSET
An attempt was made to reopen an already open tiff file for rereading,
but there was no previously opened file descriptor in place.
745  TIFFCAMSET
A tiff image was opened.  Its width or height was more than 65536
lines or columns, which is a design limitation of CNS.  Please
consult with the author if this limit must be increased.
746  TIFFCAMSET
A tiff image was opened.  The number of bits per sample returned
by libtiff was not 8, 16, or 32.  Existence of other modes is not
clear from the documentation but this possibility can be explored
if necessary--please contact the author.
747  TIFFCAMSET
A tiff image was opened.  The number of samples per pixel returned
by libtiff was not 1 (grayscale), 3 (color), or 4 (color with alpha).
Existence of other modes is not clear from the documentation but
this possibility can be explored if necessary--please contact the
author.
748  DUMPMF
Attempted to interpret non-existing operation code.


